Now that we have some of the basics and
a vocabulary of experimental design
down, let's talk about two
different types of experiments and
when you'd use each of them.
The two types of experiments that
we'll be discussing in this course
are Randomized Design and
Matched Pair Design.
Randomized design is a technique
where the treatment and
control units are selected
completely randomly.
This technique is used primarily
in situations where there is
very little opportunity to control
variables, and where the volume and
velocity of data is high enough
that you're not worried about bias.
Website-based experiments and
phone system-based experiments are great
examples of when the organization
has little ability to control who
visits a site or who calls in.
And the volume is usually high
enough that biases can be avoided.
Additionally, the cost per
observation is usually very
low in these experiments.
In randomized experiments, whether an
individual is in the treatment group or
control group is not predetermined.
It's determined on the fly in
a completely random fashion.
For example, the traffic is routed
randomly in such a way that people who
visit a website will see one of
the two pages, the treatment page or
the control page.
In contrast, a matched pair is usually
used when the volume of observations or
individuals is fairly low.
And the concern for
bias is great, and the cost for
observation is high by comparison.
In this experimental design technique,
the treatments are matched by
controls on a unit to unit basis.
Using a weighting of
the identified control variables.
In our new product experiment, a matched
pair design would involve taking each
treatment store and finding one or more
similar control stores to match it to.
Analysis is done on
a pair by pair basis,
then aggregated to a single result.
This unit by unit matching helps
eliminate sources of bias, and
it increases confidence in results,
even with a lower number
of total observations.
Unlike a completely randomized design, a
matched pair design must be set up ahead
of time, and all units must be known
before the start of the experiment.
For example, we would match each
of the treatment candy stores with
one to two control stores in order to
measure the impact of the treatment.